---
layout: post
title: "Living with(out) Windows (Linux) - 1"
date: 2023-08-06 10:34:00 +0900
background: '/img/ps-01.jpg'
---

## Introduction:
I recently purchased the Asus ROG Flow X13, attracted by its impressive specifications and sleek design. Being a long-time Linux user, I always prefer installing Linux on my new laptops. However, after some research, I discovered that this device poses some challenges when it comes to installing Linux. In this blog post, I'll share my first impressions of the Asus ROG Flow X13 and my decision to stick with the pre-installed Windows OS. Join me as I explore the laptop's features and apps while gradually making it my daily driver.

## First Impressions: Sleek, Sturdy, and Unique

At first glance, the Asus ROG Flow X13 boasts a slim and sturdy design, but two aspects caught my attention even before powering on the machine: the power button and the keyboard. The power button's side-panel placement took some time to get used to, unlike the easy accessibility of my previous ThinkPad. Similarly, while the keyboard is comfortable to type on, the unusually large fonts might not be everyone's favorite. The generously-sized trackpad, although smooth, felt slower compared to what I was accustomed to on my ThinkPad.

## The Windows Setup: Surprisingly Smooth

Upon booting up, I was prompted to create a Microsoft account, and with it, Windows assured me that it would "take care of everything." As a seasoned Linux user, it was somewhat surprising to see an operating system not being upfront about the setup process. The absence of detailed installation progress left me slightly uneasy, but it turned out to be a seamless process.

Lacking a fingerprint reader, the Asus ROG Flow X13 offers facial recognition login with its IR blast camera. Although it took a little time to set up, I eventually managed to log in effortlessly. Yet, there were occasional hiccups with the recognition, prompting me to enter the PIN, and in one instance, reset it entirely.

## Pre-installed Apps and Widgets: Bloatware Galore

After logging in, I was greeted with a plethora of pre-installed apps, ranging from McAfee to Instagram, and an abundance of Microsoft apps. One notable annoyance was the taskbar search button, which bombarded me with a never-ending stream of news and stories. As a weather enthusiast, I dearly missed having a weather widget without the unnecessary news. Unfortunately, the only option was to disable all widgets, including the weather updates.

## Embracing Windows and Exploring Linux

Considering the challenges I had previously faced with Linux installations on other laptops, I decided to retain the pre-installed Windows OS on the Asus ROG Flow X13. The Asus Armoury Crate app and the inbuilt Dolby Atmos app piqued my interest, making me feel like a gamer or even a hacker. While I'll miss the familiarity of Linux, I plan to remove a few unnecessary apps and explore the Windows Subsystem for Linux, which promises to bridge the gap between the two worlds.

## Conclusion:

The Asus ROG Flow X13 is an impressive machine with its sleek design and powerful specifications. Though I initially contemplated installing Linux, the challenges and limitations prompted me to stick with the pre-installed Windows OS. While I adjust to the new environment and explore the array of pre-installed apps, I look forward to sharing my experiences with the Windows Subsystem for Linux in future articles. Stay tuned for more updates on my journey with the Asus ROG Flow X13!



