---
layout: post
title: "Living with(out) Windows (Linux) - 3"
date: 2023-08-08 14:05:00 +0900
background: '/img/ps-03.jpg'
---

## Introduction

In this blog post, we'll explore my experience with windows software hopping - the process of switching between applications in search of the ideal combination. From document viewers and text editors to computational chemistry programs and graphic design tools, let's dive into this fascinating journey.

### 1. Okular: A Graceful Replacement for Evince

Okular, a versatile document viewer that elegantly replaces Evince. While Okular supports the EPUB format, there's still room for improvement in this area. However, I can't help but miss Foliate, which, despite its absence, remains a favorite for reading e-books. Perhaps future updates will bring the best of both worlds together.

### 2. Notepad++ vs. Notepads: A Battle of Looks vs. Features

Starting with Notepad++, I recently switched to Notepads, a visually appealing alternative. However, a significant drawback is the lack of syntax highlighting support in Notepads, leading to a sense of nostalgia for the Gedit, known for its powerful code highlighting capabilities.

### 3. Middle Click Paste: An Unavailable Convenience

I encountered a small but significant issue - the absence of middle-click paste. This simple yet convenient feature in Linux often goes unnoticed until it's no longer available.

### 4. Computational Chemistry Programs: A Quest for the Ideal Tool

Moving on to computational chemistry programs, Avogadro and Gabedit prove to be working normal in windows. Due to their privacy policy change by Marvin Sketch, I'm prompting a switch back to ACD Chemsketch Freeware. While this gets the job done, it falls short in certain aspects. The search for the perfect chemistry tool continues.

### 5. Graphic Design Tools: Satisfying Solutions

Thankfully, my exploration of graphic design tools resulted positive. RawTherapee, GIMP, and Inkscape prove to be capable and efficient choices. These applications meet the user's expectations and deliver excellent performance for various design tasks.

## Other Observations: Heating and Battery Life

Beyond the software hopping experience, I encountered some hardware-related issues. Heating and low battery life became evident, prompting a search for solutions on forums. Silent mode in Armory Crate comes to the rescue, providing a remedy for excessive heat. Battery life is not acceptable for a system without a dedicated graphics card, leaves room for improvement. The OS's RAM consumption of 50% raises concerns.

Moreover, the absence of certain Linux apps like jpegoptim and tesseract becomes apparent to me. I plan to install them in and explore their performance.